


Prepared by Srinidh Ameerpeta  ·  2026


StructOptima is a 51-module automated structural design engine that converts architectural input (DXF, IFC, or manual dimensions) into a full structural design package — including column placement, beam design, rebar detailing, foundation engineering, seismic analysis, and professional PDF reports — all compliant with Indian Standard codes IS 456, IS 1893, IS 13920, and IS 875.

This document is a step-by-step blueprint to take StructOptima from a working student project to a deployed, trusted, revenue-generating tool. It covers everything required: the minimum UI changes, trust signals, payment integration, legal protection, hosting, and go-to-market strategy to acquire your first paying users.

What This Document Covers
Trust & Credibility — what a first-time visitor needs to see before they believe the tool works
UI Priorities — the minimum changes to the Streamlit app that have the highest conversion impact
Payment Integration — exact steps to implement Razorpay pay-per-report for Indian users
Legal Protection — how to correctly frame your disclaimer so it protects you without killing trust
Hosting & Deployment — the cheapest reliable path to a live, public URL
Launch Strategy — how to get your first 50 real users without spending money on ads



A structural engineer visiting StructOptima for the first time will ask three questions in under 30 seconds: Does this actually work? Who built it? Is this safe to use? If the answer to any of these is unclear, they leave. Trust is the single most important thing to get right before worrying about features or payment.

2.1  The Trust Hierarchy
These elements must be present, in this order of importance:


2.2  The 30-Second First Impression Test
Open your app right now and ask: within 30 seconds, can a visitor understand what this does, see that it works, and know who to trust? If not, the following elements are missing:

Hero statement at the very top: 'Generate IS-code compliant structural designs from DXF files in minutes'
Three feature badges in a row: IS 456 · IS 1893 · IS 13920
A 'View Sample Report' button that requires zero input — just downloads a real PDF
Your full name and 'Civil Engineering, [Your College]' — not hidden, but in the sidebar or footer
A count: '51 modules · 28 test suites · Indian Standard compliant'



Streamlit is not a typical web framework, so you cannot build a fully custom landing page inside it. However, there are targeted changes to app.py that will dramatically improve the user experience and conversion without requiring a full redesign.

3.1  The Five Non-Negotiable UI Changes

Change 1 — Add a Welcome Banner (Top of app.py)
Before any tab or sidebar, inject this as the very first element. Use st.markdown with HTML to create a banner:


Change 2 — Add Sample Report Download Button
Pre-generate a sample PDF from your demo data and commit it to the repo. Then add this button prominently on first load, before any tabs:


Change 3 — Add Trust Stats Bar
Just below the banner, add a one-line stats row using st.columns(4) showing: 51 Modules · 28 Test Suites · IS 456 Compliant · Indian Standard Codes. Each in its own metric box with st.metric().

Change 4 — Fix the Sidebar
The sidebar currently starts with input fields. Add a header section at the top of the sidebar first:
App name and version (e.g., v1.0.0 — June 2026)
Your name: 'Built by Srinidh Ameerpeta, Civil Engineering'
A link to your GitHub repo for credibility
A brief 2-line description of what the tool does

Change 5 — Add a Prominent Disclaimer Section (Reframed)
Do not hide the disclaimer in fine print. Instead, show it as a clean info box that reframes it as a feature, not a warning:


3.2  UI Changes to Defer (Not Needed for Launch)
These would be nice but are not worth delaying deployment:
Custom domain name — use the free Railway/Render URL for now
Login/authentication wall — add this only after you have real users wanting to return
Dashboard for saved projects — premature; users must first complete one project
Dark mode — not a conversion factor for professional engineering tools
Mobile responsiveness — structural engineers work on desktop


The recommended model is pay-per-report: users can explore the tool freely, but downloading the PDF structural report costs ₹99. This requires zero subscription friction, works via UPI/cards/net banking, and is implementable in under 100 lines of code.

4.1  Setup Steps

Sign up at razorpay.com — individual accounts are accepted, approval is usually same-day
Add your bank account details for payouts. You will need your PAN card.
Go to Settings → API Keys → Generate Key. Save the Key ID and Key Secret.
Install the Python SDK: pip install razorpay
Store your keys as environment variables — NEVER hardcode them in app.py
Add a payment flow before the PDF download button in app.py

4.2  Recommended Payment Flow
This is the exact sequence a user goes through:


4.3  Environment Variables Needed


4.4  Pricing Strategy
Launch price: ₹49 per report — intentionally low to reduce friction and gather first users
After 50 reports sold: raise to ₹99 — you will have social proof by then
Add a 'Student Pack': 5 reports for ₹199 — reduces price sensitivity for engineering students
Never offer monthly subscriptions until you have 20+ repeat users requesting it



Your current disclaimer is legally sound but psychologically damaging. The phrase 'assumes no liability' reads as 'this might be wrong' to an engineer. The goal is to reframe limitations as responsible use guidance, which protects you equally well in law while building rather than destroying trust.

5.1  The Three Legal Documents You Need

Document 1 — Terms of Service (Hosted as /terms)
Add a simple Terms of Service page. Key clauses to include:
StructOptima provides preliminary structural analysis for educational and pre-design purposes
All outputs must be independently verified by a licensed Structural Engineer before construction use
By using this tool, you agree that outputs are not substitutes for professional engineering judgment
No refunds on reports once downloaded (prevents abuse)
Data entered is not stored beyond the session (important for privacy)

Document 2 — Privacy Notice (3 sentences minimum)
Since you are collecting payments via Razorpay, you must state what data you collect. A minimal statement: 'We collect only what Razorpay requires for payment processing (name, email, transaction ID). We do not store structural data or drawings. We do not sell personal data.'

Document 3 — Report Footer (on every PDF output)
Every PDF generated must contain in the footer: 'Generated by StructOptima. This report is a preliminary design aid compliant with IS 456:2000, IS 1893:2016, IS 13920:2016. All designs must be verified by a licensed Structural Engineer prior to construction.'

5.2  How to Display the Disclaimer Without Hurting Conversions




You have two phases: a free phase for testing with early users, and a paid phase once revenue starts. Do not pay for hosting until you have paying users.

6.1  Phase 1 — Free Deployment (Streamlit Cloud)
Streamlit Community Cloud is the absolute fastest path. Since your app is already app.py:

Ensure requirements.txt is complete and accurate (test it locally with a fresh venv)
Go to share.streamlit.io and sign in with your GitHub account
Click 'New App' → select your StructOptima repo → set main file as app.py
Add your environment variables (Razorpay keys) under 'Advanced Settings → Secrets'
Click Deploy — your app is live at your-app.streamlit.app within minutes


6.2  Phase 2 — Paid Deployment (Railway or Render)
Once you have consistent users (30+ per week), move to Railway.app or Render.com. Both support Python apps natively.


6.3  Requirements.txt Must-Have Check
Before deploying, verify these are in requirements.txt with pinned or minimum versions:

streamlit>=1.30.0
razorpay>=1.3.0
reportlab>=4.0.0  (for PDF generation)
ezdxf>=1.0.0  (for DXF parsing)
plotly>=5.0.0  (for 3D visualizations)
openpyxl>=3.1.0  (for Excel exports)
sentry-sdk>=1.0.0  (you already have monitoring.py — use it)

6.4  Pre-Launch Checklist



Your target user for Month 1 is not a large structural engineering firm. It is a junior engineer, a final-year civil engineering student, or a small consultant doing repetitive residential RC building work. They are active on WhatsApp groups, LinkedIn, and engineering forums — and they are reachable for free.

7.1  Week 1 Launch Actions

Post on LinkedIn — write a 3-paragraph post: what it does, why you built it, the live link. Tag it with #CivilEngineering #StructuralEngineering #IS456. Post at 9 AM Tuesday or Wednesday.
Share in WhatsApp groups — civil engineering batch groups, college department groups, and local engineering association groups. Write a short 4-line message with the link and 'drop your feedback'.
Post on Reddit — r/civilengineering and r/india. Title: 'Built an automated IS 456/1893 structural design engine for RC buildings — free to try'. Be genuine about being a student project.
Share on Engineering Forums — structuralengineering.net, engineeringtoolbox community forums, and any Indian CE community you can find.
Email 5 professors from your college and 5 structural engineering firms in your city. Keep it short — 3 sentences + link. Ask only for feedback, not promotion.

7.2  Content Strategy (Week 2 Onwards)
After launch, create one piece of content per week to keep visibility:
LinkedIn post: 'Here's what StructOptima outputs for a G+2 residential building in Seismic Zone III' — with screenshots
Short video (phone recording is fine): screen recording of DXF upload to PDF report in 2 minutes
Twitter/X thread: 'IS 456 column design calculations — how StructOptima does it automatically in 5 steps'
GitHub: respond to every issue and star within 24 hours — public engagement signals active maintenance

7.3  Feedback Collection — Critical
Add this to your app after every report download:


7.4  First Month Success Metrics




Do not build anything from this section until you have at least 20 real users and real feedback. Everything below is conditional on what users tell you they need. Building in advance of user feedback is the single most common reason student projects fail to become products.

8.1  If Users Say: 'I want to save my projects'
Add user authentication. You already have auth.py — expand it with a database (Supabase free tier is ideal). Let users save and reload projects. This enables the monthly subscription model.

8.2  If Users Say: 'I want to collaborate with my team'
Add shareable project links. Generate a unique URL per project that others can view (read-only). This is a natural upsell to a team plan at ₹999/month.

8.3  If Users Say: 'I need compliance certificates'
Add a 'Compliance Summary' PDF that explicitly lists every IS code clause checked, the calculated value, the code limit, and pass/fail. This is high-value for engineers preparing reports for approval authorities.

8.4  If Users Say: 'I want to compare design alternatives'
Add a side-by-side comparison view — two structural options, different column layouts, different steel grades — with cost difference. This is a premium feature worth ₹199 per comparison.

8.5  What NOT to Build (Common Traps)
A mobile app — structural engineers work on desktop with large drawings
AI/chatbot interface — your users need reliable IS-code calculations, not conversational ambiguity
Support for international codes — stay India-focused until you dominate that niche
BIM export improvements — only relevant if users are already working in Revit/ArchiCAD pipelines


Critical Path — Do These in Order

Pre-generate sample_report.pdf and commit it to GitHub
Add the Welcome Banner to top of app.py
Add 'View Sample Report' download button (zero friction)
Add Trust Stats bar (51 modules, 28 tests, IS codes)
Sign up for Razorpay, get test keys
Implement pay-per-report flow in test mode (₹49)
Deploy to Streamlit Cloud (free)
Complete a test payment end-to-end
Switch Razorpay to live mode
Post on LinkedIn and share in WhatsApp groups

Key URLs & Resources


Revenue Milestones

